# Swagger generated server

Spring Boot Server 


## Overview  
This server was generated by an API Swagger contract definition.     
By using the Swagger CodeGen, you can easily generate a server stub.  
This is an example of building a swagger-enabled server in Java using the SpringBoot framework.   
When creating a REST API, good documentation is instrumental.   
Moreover, every change in the API should be simultaneously described in the reference documentation.   
Accomplishing this manually is a tedious exercise, so automation of the process is inevitable.   
  


Start your server as a simple java application  

You can view the api documentation in swagger-ui by pointing to  
http://localhost:8080/  

Change default port value in application.properties   
   
## Scenario   
   
A new project is initiating within the organisation.   
The objective of the project is to enable the customers of the organisation    
to manage their profile (end to end i.e. create, update and delete) through   
web channel and mobile (app) channel.   
Being a senior member within the API team, you have been tasked to deliver:   

* APIs that can be consumed by mobile apps   

* APIs that can be consumed by web channel   

The backend system is an enterprise CRM and is not yet ready to expose REST APIs.   
The CRM team is in the process of designing their REST APIs.   
   
## Assumptions   
   
   * Redis could've been used as an in-memory data structure store, used as a database,   
     and cache.   
        
   * As the purpose of these API's are for users from other teams to continue with their   
     development while the CRM Team finalize their API's development, I didn't think a    
     Database or an in-memory cache was necessary.   
                    
   
## Security Mechanism     
   
Spring Basic Auth is the preferred security for this exercise.      
The process of creating the Authorization header is relatively straightforward for Basic   
Authentication, so it can pretty much be done manually with a few lines of code.   
Authentication is an absolutely essential element of a typical security model.   
It is the process of confirming the identification of a user (or in some cases, a machine) that   
is trying to log on or access resources. There are a number of different authentication mechanisms,   
but all serve this same purpose.   
More time is needed for full on application process authentication.   
   
## Getting Started   
   
These instructions will generate you a spring boot server project up and running on your   
local machine for development and testing purposes.   
A top-down approach - First API specification and then code generation.   
   
## Prerequisites   
   
```$xslt
   
   Java8   
   Swagger Editor   
   Swagger CodeGen   
   Spring boot   
   Spring Rest   
   Maven   
   
```                  
   
To create API contract use online Swagger Editor for the sake of simplicity.   
You can also download and install the same.   
You can find the API Contract (swagger.yaml) under resources/swagger folder.   
In the left pane of Swagger Editor write down the specification, or just copied and past any existing   
API contract in a .yaml or .json format. Based on the specification outcome, right pane will show the   
UI documentation of Swagger.   
   
## Generating API Code   
   
To further generate source code, this swagger.yaml file will be the source of input. To facilitate it,   
Swagger Code Gen tool is used.   
Swagger provides utility jar to generate client REST clients for different programming languages and    
framework. The latest stable version jar can be downloaded from Swagger Codegen.   
   
To generate client execute below command.   
   
```$xslt
    java -jar swagger-codegen-cli-2.2.3.jar generate   
          -i swagger.yaml    
          --api-package com.qantas.task.profile.v1.api   
          --model-package com.qantas.task.profile.v1.model   
          --group-id com.qantas.task    
          --artifact-id spring-swagger-codegen-profile   
          --artifact-version 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT    
          -l spring     
          -o spring-swagger-codegen-profile
```                  
   
Description of arguments:   
   
   * i: Swagger specification source file   
   * api-package: Package information for generated API class   
   * model-package: Package information for generated model class   
   * group-id: Maven properties   
   * artifact-id: Maven properties   
   * artifact-version: Maven properties   
   * l: Implementation framework, here Spring is used, which by default provides spring-boot   
   * o: Output directory   
   
## Executing API Code   
   
Import the generated maven project into your favour IDE.
Once imported and project is build successfully, you can find swagger configuration classes   
are automatically created.   
Next run the project and open Swagger UI accessible at http://localhost:8080/v1/swagger-ui.html.   
You can check all API details in Swagger UI.   
You can also test your project by using Postman client.    
   
                  
 
      
      